Sim (#34)
SOMAS2020/SOMAS-Final-Report: 15_simulations/index.tex

\chapter{Simulations}
\section{Introduction}
\label{sec:Simulations:Intro}

> The purpose of performing simulations and analysing their results is to explore the efficacy of each agent's strategy under different conditions. We would like to answer questions such as: does the benefit of organisation outweigh the cost? Or, can the agent strategies overcome the foraging dilemma outlined in Section INSERT REF LATER? The analysis encapsulates the purpose of the entire project, and is the final result of all the work done. In this chapter we aim to prove that our platform and the agents are capable of displaying interesting behaviour and that we can draw conclusions about how certain behaviours and environmental factors affect a multi-agent system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The purpose of performing simulations and analysing their results is to explore the efficacy of each agent's strategy under different conditions. We would like to answer questions such as: 

\begin{itemize}
\item Does the benefit of running the IIGO outweigh its cost? 
\item Can the agent strategies overcome the foraging dilemma outlined in Section INSERT REF LATER? 
\end{itemize}
 ```

Reviewer: could you include more questions PLZZ

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The analysis encapsulates the purpose of the entire coursework and therefore, is the final result of all the work done. In this chapter, we aim to prove that our platform and the agents are capable of displaying interesting behaviour and hence, we can draw conclusions about how certain behaviours and environmental factors affect a multi-agent system.
```

I liked the last sentence -- good analysis

Reviewer: well ok GitHub didn't understand my intention, but it must be clear

> The purpose of performing simulations and analysing their results is to explore the efficacy of each agent's strategy under different conditions. We would like to answer questions such as: does the benefit of organisation outweigh the cost? Or, can the agent strategies overcome the foraging dilemma outlined in Section INSERT REF LATER? The analysis encapsulate the purpose of the entire project, and is the final result of all the work we have put in. In this chapter we aim to prove that our platform and the agents are capable of display interesting behaviour and that we can draw conclusions about how behaviors certain behaviours and environmental factors affect a multi-agent system.

Reviewer 2: analyses encapsulate or analysis encapsulates

Reviewer 2: all the work ~we have put in~ done

Reviewer 2: ~display~displaying

Reviewer 2: how ~behaviors~?

\section{Metrics}
\label{sec:Simulations:Metric}

> To assist in this analysis we need to draw quantifiable results from the simulations. Thus enters the metrics: these numerical values give us information on the events of the game that we can then use to compare numerous simulations and draw insights into what effect the changing of certain parameters has on the game. Some metrics are also worth knowing on a turn by turn basis and as such have been represented as graphs. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To assist in this analysis, we need to draw quantifiable results from the simulations. Thus enters the metrics: These numerical values give us information on the events of the game that we can then use to compare numerous simulations and draw insights into what influences the changing of certain parameters has on the game. Some metrics are also worth knowing on a turn by turn basis and as such have been represented as graphs. 
```

> To assist in this analysis we need to draw quantifiable results from the simulations. Thus enters the metrics, these numerical values or visualisation give us information on the events of the game that we can then use to compare numerous simulation and draw insights into what effect the changing of certain parameters has on the game. Some metrics are also worth knowing on a turn by turn basis and as such have been represented as graphs. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To assist in this analysis we need to draw quantifiable results from the simulations. Thus enters the metrics: these numerical values give us information on the events of the game that we can then use to compare numerous simulations and draw insights into what effect the changing of certain parameters has on the game. Some metrics are also worth knowing on a turn by turn basis and as such have been represented as graphs. 
```

\begin{itemize}

>     \item \textbf{Archipelago Survivability}: Turns until all the islands in the archipelago die.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    \item \textbf{Archipelago Survivability}: Number of turns until all the islands in the archipelago die.
```

>     \item \textbf{First Island Death}: Turns until any island dies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    \item \textbf{First Island Death}: Number of turns until any island dies.
```

>     \item \textbf{First Island Death}: Turns until a single island dies.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    \item \textbf{First Island Death}: Turns until any island dies.
```

(two islands can die in the same turn)

>     \item \textbf{Island Resources$^1$$^2$}: Resource an island has each turn.

Reviewer: what is this ^1 ??

Reviewer: lol, do you wanna make a footnote or smth :D

>     \item \textbf{Island Resources$^1$$^2$}: Resource an island has each turn.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    \item \textbf{Island Resources$^1$$^2$}: Amount of resources an island has each turn.
```

>     \item \textbf{Island Resources$^1$$^2$}: Resource an island has each turn

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    \item \textbf{Island Resources$^1$$^2$}: Resource an island has each turn.
```

>     \item \textbf{Gini Index}: A measure of how fair the distribution of resources is across the archipelago.

Reviewer: good wording <3

>     \item \textbf{Disasters Survived}: Number of disasters the archipelago has survived.

Reviewer: survived... meaning?
everyone survived or at least 1 island survived??
revise

    \item \textbf{Island Trading$^1$$^2$}: Resources an island has gifted to other islands.

>     \item \textbf{Average Disaster Damage Mitigated(ADDM)}: Average disaster damage mitigated by the common pool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    \item \textbf{Average Disaster Damage Mitigated (ADDM)}: Average disaster damage mitigated by the common pool.
```

>     \item \textbf{Average Disaster Damage Mitigated(ADDM)}: Average disaster damage mitigated by the common pool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    \item \textbf{Average Disaster Damage Mitigated(ADDM)}: Average amount of disaster damage mitigated by the common pool.
```

>     \item \textbf{Island Foraging Statistics(IFS)$^1$}: Resources an island has invested and gained from foraging.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    \item \textbf{Island Foraging Statistics (IFS)$^1$}: Amount of resources an island has invested and gained from foraging.
```

>     \item \textbf{Archipelago Foraging Sustainability(AFS)}: The average net forage returns across all islands.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    \item \textbf{Archipelago Foraging Sustainability (AFS)}: The average net forage returns across all islands.
```

>     \item \textbf{IIGO Roles$^2$}: The power each island has at any turn in the game. Power in this case is occupying one of the three roles in IIGO.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    \item \textbf{IIGO Roles$^2$}: The power each island has at any turn in the game\footnote{Power, in this case, refers to occupying one of the three roles in IIGO}.
```

or smth like that ..  fix my english plz

>     \item \textbf{IIGO Allocations$^1$$^2$}: Amount of resources allocated to each island by the president and the amount the island has taken.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    \item \textbf{IIGO Allocations$^1$$^2$}: Amount of resources allocated to each island by the President and the amount the island has taken from the common pool.
```

>     \item \textbf{IIGO Tax$^1$$^2$}: Amount of resources an island is expected to pay to the common pool for tax and amount the island has paid.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    \item \textbf{IIGO Tax$^1$$^2$}: Amount of resources an island is expected to contribute to the common pool in terms of tax and amount of tax an island has actually paid.
```

>     \item \textbf{IIGO Sanctions$^1$$^2$}: Amount of resources an island is expected to pay to the common pool for sanctions and amount the island has paid.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    \item \textbf{IIGO Sanctions$^1$$^2$}: Amount of resources an island is expected to contribute to the common pool due to the imposed sanctions and amount of contribution the island has actually did for the imposed sanctions.
```

    
\end{itemize}

> \small{$^1$ Presented on a per island basis. $^2$ Presented as a graph}

Reviewer: footnote plz

Reviewer: presented as a graph. 

full-stop svp

\section{Baseline Simulation}
\label{sec:Simulations:baseline}

> In order to make any meaningful analysis one must first have a baseline from which to compare. In our case, this baseline is a \emph{normal} set of environment conditions which allows the agents to thrive for a significant period of time, chosen at around 100 turns. From this baseline we can then start adjusting the configuration of the simulation, either making disasters more frequent/deadly, or making resources more sparse.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to make any meaningful analysis, one must first have a baseline against which to compare other performances. In our case, this baseline is a \emph{normal} set of environmental conditions which allows the agents to thrive for a significant period of time, chosen to be at around 100 turns. From this baseline, we can then start adjusting the configuration of the simulation by either making disasters more frequent and deadly or making resources more sparse.
```

> In order to make any meaningful analysis one must first have baseline from which to compare. In our case, this baseline is a 'normal' set of environment conditions which allow the agents to thrive for a significant period of time, around 100 turns. From this baseline we can then start adjusting the configuration of the simulation, either making disaster more frequent/deadly, or making resources more sparse.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order to make any meaningful analysis one must first have a baseline from which to compare. In our case, this baseline is a \emph{normal} set of environment conditions which allows the agents to thrive for a significant period of time, chosen at around 100 turns. From this baseline we can then start adjusting the configuration of the simulation, either making disasters more frequent/deadly, or making resources more sparse.
```

Note: If a metric is not of interest to a certain area of exploration it will not be shown.

\subsection{Baseline Numeric Metrics}

> \label{subsec:Simulations:baseline:num_metrics}

Reviewer: oh god, good labellll

\begin{table}[htb]
    \centering
    \begin{tabular}{|l|l|}
    \hline
    \textbf{Metric}                     & \textbf{Value} \\ \hline

>     \textbf{Archipelago Survivability}  &       \\

Reviewer: ok, let's be conssitent..
I think you should also include LINES in this table.... 
just like the table you have below :)

Reviewer: well ok LOL

    \textbf{First Island Death}         &       \\
    \textbf{Gini Index}                 &       \\
    \textbf{Disasters Survived}         &       \\
    \textbf{ADDM}                       &       \\
    \textbf{AFS}                        &       \\ \hline
\end{tabular}
\caption{Numerical Metrics}
\end{table}

\subsection{Baseline IFS}
\label{subsec:Simulations:baseline:ifs}

> \begin{table}[htb]

Reviewer: hm.. the widths of the columns are not ideal.
can you enlarge the width of the very first column xxx

        \textbf{2: Total} &            &        &       \\
        Deer              &            &        &       \\
        Fish              &            &        &       \\ \hline
        \textbf{3: Total} &            &        &       \\
        Deer              &            &        &       \\
        Fish              &            &        &       \\ \hline
        \textbf{4: Total} &            &        &       \\
        Deer              &            &        &       \\
        Fish              &            &        &       \\ \hline
        \textbf{5: Total} &            &        &       \\
        Deer              &            &        &       \\
        Fish              &            &        &       \\ \hline
        \textbf{6: Total} &            &        &       \\
        Deer              &            &        &       \\
        Fish              &            &        &       \\ \hline
\end{tabular}
\caption{Island Foraging Statistics}
\end{table}

\subsection{Baseline IIGO Tax, Allocations and Sanctions}
\label{subsec:Simulations:baseline:IIGO}

\subsection{Baseline IIGO Roles}
\label{subsec:Simulations:baseline:IIGO_roles}

> \subsection{Baseline Trading}

Reviewer: trading?? do we have trading? isn't it gifting or smth
